DV128_20_PAS ON Internet Connection Types

What is satellite networking?
Satellite networking  is when we use of satellite dish to communicate with a satellite  that’s in a low Earth orbit, and back. We sometimes refer to this as a non-terrestrial communication method because we’re communicating to a device that’s in space.
How does the cost of satellite connectivity compare to other forms of internet connectivity?
 Having a rocket take your satellite connection into space is a relatively expensive task. And so the costs of having satellite connectivity can be more expensive compared to other forms of terrestrial internet connectivity.
What are typical speeds for satellite internet?
50 megabits of speed down and three megabits of speed going up to the satellite.
What are some common uses for satellite internet?
The satellite connectivity is typically useful when no other forms of terrestrial internet connectivity is available.
What is latency when communicating with satellites in space?
The  latency might be 250 milliseconds going up to the satellite and another 250 milliseconds coming down from the satellite.
How does satellite internet compare to terrestrial internet when it comes to latency?
The terrestrial internet connectivity offers higher speeds and reduced latency when compared to satellite internet, as it does not have to reach up to satellites for transmissions.
What is a newer type of satellite network?
There are some newer satellite technologies such as Starlink that operates at higher frequency. This network promises 40 millisecond latency times, and they’re working on getting that down to 20 milliseconds.
What is the latency time advertised by Starlink?
40 millisecond latency times.  They’re working on getting that down to 20 milliseconds.
What frequency range do satellite connections operate in?
 The satellite connections tend to operate in higher frequencies such as the two gigahertz range.
What is the cause of rain fade when using a satellite connection?
When using satellite connection, rain fade or losing the connection is caused when there is rain obstructing the path between the satellite and the receiving device.
What is the advantage of fiber optic links for internet connections?
Fiber optics offers high speeds and allows to send very large amount of data over a short period of time.
Why is fiber optics more expensive than other internet connections?
The equipment and maintenance cost of fiber optics is more expensive compared to other forms of internet connections.
How is fiber optics used in enterprise networks?
The enterprise networks use fiber optics technology for connecting the infrastructure devices and the cores of your network together. This greatly improves bandwidth for your internet connections and gives you other options for sending or receiving information over these high speed links.


How does running fiber optics to a home or business improve bandwidth?
The concept of  running fiber optics in a network core, used by the enterprise  is extended it to running fiber optics to  home or  business. This greatly improves bandwidth for your internet connections and gives you other options for sending or receiving information over these high speed links.




What is the method of communication used by cable broadband?
Cable broadband can communicate multiple streams of data across a single wire by communicating multiple frequencies in the same wire.This means on a single wire, we can transmit video, voice, and data simply by using different frequencies on that same medium.
How does cable broadband transmit video, voice, and data?
The cable broadband can transmit video , voice and data by transmitting them different frequencies across the single wire connected to the cable modem.
Who might provide cable broadband service?
	The cable company.
What is the standard for sending data over cable networks?
The standard for sending this data over cable networks is called DOCSIS. That stands for Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification.
What are the typical speeds of DOCSIS networks?
 This DOCSIS standard supports very high speeds of over 1 gigabit /second.
Do you need to bring additional cables or services into your home for DOCSIS?
No. A single cable wire can can be used to transmit data, video and audio
What is the technology that uses existing copper in a home?
DSL (Digital subscriber Line) or ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) uses existing copper telephone lines at home to provide network connections.
What is the difference between the speed of download and upload on DSL?
 DSL networks to have a downstream speed of around 200 megabits per second, and the upstream speed is limited to around 20 megabits per second.
 What are the typical speeds of DSL networks?
 DSL networks to have a downstream speed of around 200 megabits per second, andt the upstream speed is limited to around 20 megabits per second.
 These speeds are also limited by how far away you are from the Central Office or CO. If your CO is an extended distance away, then those speeds tend to decrease.
What is the limitation of DSL in terms of distance?
 There is about a 10,000 foot limitation for DSL.
What type of networks are commonly used for internet connectivity when away from home or office?
Cellular networks.

How is internet connectivity provided through cellular networks?
Internet connectivity is provided through cellular networks via tethering or enabling mobile hotspot.

What is tethering?
Tethering is accessing internet connection through cellular network by physically connecting the device to the mobile via USB or by bluetooth.


What is a hotspot?
Enabling hotspot capability on the mobile phone to gain internet access provided by cellular network is hotspot. This enables 802.11 capabilities and anything in range would be able to use that 802.11 network through the phone to access the internet.



What is a WISP?
Wireless Internet Service Provider. WISP is an Internet service provider that provides the service without cable or DSL wires. In this type of network, the data is transmitted  to the  local ground stations that are within the geographic area for that ISP. Usually you would find a WISP operating in rural areas or places where there’s not a large infrastructure already available to send internet traffic.



In what areas are WISPs commonly found?

Usually WISP is found operating in rural areas or places where there’s not a large infrastructure already available to send internet traffic.

What are the typical speeds of wireless networks provided by WISPs?
	1000mbps.
