DV128_3_PAS On Laptop Displays
Self-Assessment Sheet

What does LCD stand for?
Liquid Crystal Display

What is a disadvantage in LCD?
The disadvantage is that the lightsource used at the back (whether fluorescent or LED) has to shine through in order to provide the color. Which means getting ‘True black’ can be difficult.

What are three different technologies of liquid crystal displays?
1.TN LCD - Twisted Nematic LCD (adv - faster response time, disadv - bad viewing angles. if the viewer is not looking straight infront of the screen, there can be color inversions)
2. IPS LCD - In Plane Switching LCD (adv - Good color representation, disadv - expensive)
3. VA LCD - Vertical Alignment LCD (adv- good color representation, disadv - bad response time)

If you’re looking for the best possible color representation on an LCD display, you’ll want to use?
In Plane Switching LCD.

If you’re looking for the best possible response you’ll want to?
Twisted Nematic LCD

 If you’re a gamer or using some application that has fast moving graphics, what type of LCD should you use?
Twisted Nematic LCD

What LCD gives you very good color representation, which is great for using graphics or doing some type of desktop publishing?
In Plane Switching LCD.

What does TN LCD stand for?
Twisted Nematic LCD

What does IPS LCD stand for?
In Plane Switching LCD

What does VA display stand for?
Vertical Alignment Display

 What is the newest from of display?
OLED - Organic Light Emitting Diode


 What does OLED stand for?
OLED - Organic Light Emitting Diode

 OLED has a backlight. True or False?
False. It has organic material that emits light when provided with current.

 In older laptops, you may find that the backlight that it’s using is.
Fluorescent lamp (or specifically, CCFL - Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamp)


Newer LCD displays might use what type of lights instead of using a fluorescent lamp?
LED  backlit LCD- Light Emitting Diodes

What component in your device may only allow for stylus input, or it might also provide input using a touch screen?
Digitizer

 What type of display does not have liquid crystals?
OLED - Organic Light Emitting Diode

 Why are OLEDs so thin?
Because it does not have a backlight and liquid crystals. The organic material used in the display will create its own light when provided with current.

 In OLED displays, you need glass on the front screen to protect it? True or False?
False. The OLED does not require glass in the front.

 How does OLED work?
The OLED is made up of organic material that shines and gives out light and color when supplied with power.
