DV128_8_SAS On Mobile Device Configuration
Self-Assessment Sheet

What is Microsoft cloud-based services called?
Microsoft 365

What is apples cloud service called?
iCloud

What is an advantage to using iCloud?
Ans

On iCloud are you able to select what you want synchronized?
yes

 Is iCloud used for backups?
     yes

Can you use iCloud with Microsoft?
no

There are limited synchronization options for iCloud. True or False?
no. the synchronization options in icloud are extensive.

If you lose your iPhone, how can you access your data and is it backed up?
The user can authenticate on a different device with their icloud credentials and download the backed up data.

With Microsoft 365, you can only synchronize the email between your mobile device and other email systems you use. True or False?
False. you can synchronize contacts, calendars, reminders and notes.

 What is outlook a part of?
Microsoft 365 cloud service.

 Can you sync your calendars across all devices using Microsoft 365?
Yes

 If you’re running your own exchange servers, what service are you using?
Microsoft outlook or microsoft exchange.
( This is the same if you’re using Microsoft’s Hotmail or Microsoft’s cloud-based Outlook.com service. This is one that requires you to authenticate to Microsoft 365, and this is often just a username and a password. Once you add that authentication, you then gain access to your email settings, and you’re able to enable and disable different items that you want to synchronize with that service.
)

Is there a way if you create a note on your mobile phone, the note automatically appears on Microsoft 365 on your desktop and vice versa?
yes . this can be configured with data synchronization options.

 To connect to iCloud, you would use your iCloud.
username and password.

Where can you access your iCloud settings?
Under settings on Apple devices.

 There are extensive configuration settings for iCloud, but you can’t control exactly what data is synchronized. True or False?
False. you can control what data should be synced.

 You can use iCloud to sync your emails across all your IOS devices. True or False?
True.

 Can configure the system to allow cellular transfers or only allow transfers over faster 802.11 networks?
icloud configuration settings.

You can enable and disable different network connections or control the use of exactly how you download when you’re on a cellular network. True or False?
True

 Using cellular networks, you can’t download files. True and False and explain?
 False. The files can be downloaded. The configurations allows us to control the files that can be downloaded.
