DV128_5_PAS Mobile Device Accessories
Self-Assessment Sheet

If you are someone who takes your laptop back and forth between work and home, what’s a good solution for you to minimize all the plugging and unplugging of cables used for devices such as printers, keyboards etc.?
Docking station. The docking station enables the user to connect to or disconnect from other external peripherals that are connected to it by placing or removing the laptop from the docking station.

What does TRRS stand for?
Tip Ring Ring Sleeve. Its the connection type used to send and receive the audio signals from the computer to the headset.

What is one of the challenges our mobile phones and tablets have with speakers that are built in?
The built in speakers on mobile phones are small and had limited efficiency.

What are the functions of a stylus?
Stylus is an input device that emulates the hand movements, converting them to digital signals onto the device. It activates and manipulates the interface without having to physically touch the device. It can be used to write and draw.

Can you disable the mouse track pad on your laptop while using an external mouse?
Yes. The track pad can be disabled by using the function key.

If you need to perform very precise functions or be able to do something very specific on the screen, you may want to try using?
Touch Pen or capacitive stylus.

If you’re an artist or someone who wants to perform more precise work on a tablet, you may want to try using an?
Active stylus

A digital stylus provides you with more functionality and more precise usability than something like a capacitive touch pen. True or False?
True.

The stylus is not able to communicate independently with the device that’s being used if those two devices are not touching each other. True or False?
False. It can independently communicate with the device without having to touch it.

 If you’re using an Apple iPad, you would need to use what type of pen?
An apple pen using their own active stylus.

 Using an active stylus you can see as the user is writing on the screen and they apply a little more pressure, then you can see that the difference in the line width changes. True or False?
True.

 What if you’re using a computer that doesn’t have any type of capacitive display or any type of active touchscreen that you can interact with?
An external drawing pad may be used to enable touch screen capability. This uses active stylus combined with external digitizer for connecting with the computer for data input.

 Do laptops include an external mouse?
no

 Can you add an external keyboard and mouse on a Mac?
Yes. as long as it is compatible with the apple, it can be connected with the lightning cable or wirelessly.

Can you customize exactly the way the trackpad works on your system?
      Yes.
 What does TRRS do?
 TRRS stands for Tip-Ring-Ring-Sleeve. It is used to send and receive audio signals .

 (This is an analog audio jack that takes the information you’re talking into your microphone or audio that you need to hear and sends it through the copper connection that’s plugged into this device.)

If you’re an Apple user, you may not have the option of a USB or a 3- and 1/2-millimeter audio connection. True or False?
True. Apple devices uses lightning port to connect to the headset.

 What port does apple have?
Lightning port.

 What’s one alternative method an apple user can connect to headphones without the 3.5 mm jack?
by using the lightning port to connect to iphone or ipad or via bluetooth headset to connect wirelessly.

 If you like a simpler form of connecting and disconnecting your laptop, you may want to use something like?
      A port replicator.
(This is very similar to a docking station, but you connect to this port replicator usually through a USB connection that’s on the replicator itself.)
