DV128_6_PAS Cellular Standards
Self-Assessment Sheet

What were the original cellular networks called?
2G networks

What are the two global standards for cellular network?
GSM and CDMA

What does GSM stand for?
Global System for Mobile Communication

What does CDMA stand for?
Code Division Multiple Access

What does LTE stand for?
Long Term Evolution


What is the newest generation of cellular network?
          5G Network or 5th Genenration cellular network.

Organizations handle email a little bit differently, and most organizations will have a corporate configuration that needs to be added to the mobile device. True and False?
True.
(Many organizations rely on Microsoft’s email service to be able to communicate to others within the organization, and they often use the cloud-based service of Microsoft 365. They can also use Microsoft Outlook or Microsoft Exchange if they are  running their own exchange servers. This is similar to using Microsoft’s Hotmail or Microsoft’s cloud-based Outlook.com service. This is one that requires them to authenticate to Microsoft 365, and this is often just a username and a password. )

CDMA was the most popular in the world and with providers. True or False?
False.

CDMA was used by what two mobile carriers?
Verizon and Sprint in USA.

What two standards of cellular network were very good for voice communication?
GSM and CDMA

 What was a limitation with GSM and CDMA networks?
Limited support for data transfers over these 2 networks.

 What percentage of the worldwide market did GSM hold?
90%

 What network allowed you to have all of your phone configurations on a subscriber identity module or a SIM card?
GSM

This network allowed us to have much more capabilities for the data that we were sending from our mobile devices. And with additional speed, we could send more of that data much faster over these same networks?
3G

This network controlled exactly what handsets you were able to use on their networks and was not so popular around the world?
CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access)

 What was introduced as the third new network?
3G or 3rd generation network

 With the enhanced speeds of the 3G network, we were able to introduce new capabilities for our mobile handsets. What are some examples?
GPS
Mobile television
Streaming video and audio
Streaming video on demand.

 What does LTE stand for and what are the average speed of the network?
LTE - Long Term Evolution . its a 4G network. The avg speed was 150 megabits /second for LTE and 300 mbps for LTE-A (LTE advanced)

 The new 5G networks have introduced greatly enhanced speeds. Eventually what speeds will the network be able to perform at?
10 gigabit per second

As these 5G networks are rolling out, you may find that you have speeds between ___ and __ megabits per second?
100 to 900mbps
