DV128_7_PAS On Mobile Device Connectivity
Self-Assessment Sheet

 Connecting an external device to your tablet or your mobile phone wirelessly you would use what method of pairing?
Bluetooth

Do you have to go through the pairing process every time when using Bluetooth?
no. Pairing should be done for the first time only. the device is detected and paired automatically when in the vicinity.

What mode do you need to be in to be viewable on Bluetooth?
Discoverable mode.

Does Bluetooth have pin protection?
YES.

What is GPS
Global Positioning System.

Who created GPS first?
The US Department of Defence.

True or False? There are currently only 5 GPS satellites.
False. There are 30 GPS satellites in orbit around the earth.

How do our phones gather information about where we’re located in the world?
Through cellular network. the phones identify the cellular towers in the are to precisely identify the location.

What is MDM?
Mobile Device Management

 One way to manage all the mobile device being used by your organization.
through MDM

 What is BYOD?
Bring your own device.

 What is an advantage of using MDM?
MDM allows the organization to gain access to the configurations of all mobile devices in its environment and to manage and control the usage.

 If the manager wants to ensure that certain applications are installed, the data is protected, or that certain capabilities of the phone are enabled or disabled, such as the camera, you can do all of that using?
MDM

 You can use the MDM to manage the type of access control that’s being used on a mobile phone. True or False?
True

 Can MDM improve security?
YEs

 The MDM can also be used to prevent certain applications from being installed? True or False?
True.

 If our phone can hear the signals coming from at least how many satellites so that we can get very precise information?
4 satellites.
 Our phones can calculate where we happen to be based on timing differences from all these different satellites. True or False?
True

 Best way to connect external devices wirelessly to a device?
Bluetooth

The first step in the pairing process is making sure:
      the devices are in discoverable mode.
