DV128_29_PAS_SCSI Device Cables
Self-Assessment Sheet

Q1. What does SCSI stand for?
Ans  Small Computer Systems Interface. 



Q2. What is a SCSI interface?
Ans:SCSI is a standard interface that can be used to connect to storage devices, scanners, printers, and other devices on your network.

Q3. What was the purpose of creating the SCSI interface?
Ans: SCSI was originally designed to have many devices connected to one single interface on the computer by daisy chaining multiple devices together.

Q4. How many devices can be connected to one SCSI chain?
Ans: 16 devices.

Q5. What is the newest SCSI standard?
Ans: One of the newest standards is iSCSI or SCSI over IP.

Q6. What types of connectivity does SCSI support?
Ans: , SCSI can support both parallel and serial connectivity, depending on which type of format is being used for  that SCSI connection.


Q7. How many devices could a single SCSI interface support on a narrow bus?
Ans: 8

Q8. What was used to connect our scanners and CD-ROM drives before SATA and USB?
Ans: SCSI

Q9. What is one of the benefits of SCSI and its protocols?
Ans: One of the benefits of SCSI and the protocols that are used to communicate over this SCSI connection is that it is a very intelligent form of connectivity. After providing the  basic connectivity, the  SCSI takes care of identifying what devices are in that chain and how to access those devices over the SCSI connection.

Q10. Are SCSI protocols still used today?
Ans: Yes.

Q11. What is the 68 pin connector commonly used for?
Ans:


Q12. What is the purpose of having a single interface on a computer?
Ans: to connect multiple devices

Q13. What is the purpose of a SCSI ID?
Ans: SCSI ID number is required to differentiate between the  separate devices that are connected to the single interface on the computer with the  same cable. Every device that is connected to that particular SCSI cable would all have a separate ID number associated with it.


Q14. How does SCSI allow for connectivity to a drive array?
Ans: By Logical Unit (LUN)

Q15. What is the purpose of a SCSI terminator?
Ans: The SCSI terminator is a device placed at the end of the cable that allows multiple devices on the wire to be able to communicate simultaneously.


Q16. What is a logical unit?
Ans: That logical unit allows to reference a single drive within a much larger SCSI ID device.

Q17. What is a newer SCSI standard?
Ans: The newer SCSI standard is the Serial attached SCSI or SAS.
These devices are much simplified over the older SCSI configurations that requires manual set up of SCSI ID and to always have a terminator on the connection.
Q18. Is there anything required to use a SAS device?
Ans: No. SAS does not require SCSI id’s or terminators installed or any other additional settings.

Q19. What can be seen on the back of an external SCSI storage device?
Ans: Sport for power, SCSI out and SCSI in interfaces.

Q20. Are there any buttons to modify the SCSI ID?
Ans: YEs.

Q21. What does a SCSI controller look like when you look inside a computer?
Ans: So if you look inside one of these computers with SCSI interfaces, you may find a cable that looks something like this. You can see that it plugs into the motherboard. It’s got a long set of cables. Here’s one connector for a storage device. Another connection, a third, a fourth, and then finally a terminator at the end of this cable. So inside of the computer we would use a cable like that to connect to the motherboard. And then one of those other connectors would connect to the SCSI drives that are inside of our system.
Here’s a view of the SCSI connection outside of a computer case. You can see the motherboard is on the top with that SCSI connector. And that single ribbon cable wraps around. And one of the interfaces on that ribbon cable connects to a storage drive. You can see there are multiple interfaces on this cable. So we can continue to add storage drives as long as we have connectors on this cable.

Q22. What does the SCSI terminator look like?
Ans:

Q23. What replaced the need for cables with multiple interfaces and devices with multiple SCSI interfaces?
Ans: SAS
